Hello and welcome back.
And today we're going to be talking about relational keys relational keys are divided into four types.
In as well primary keys foreign keys super keys and candidate keys super keys being the most fundamental
ones.
So as soubriquet is any combination of columns that uniquely identify a row in the table.
If you think about this table that consists of three attributes employ the first name last name the
super key the biggest one is use all three columns in your search engine.
So you say where employee equals one first name equals brand and last name equal to.
Now candidate keys are basically super keys that cannot be reduced to more Superguy.
And it also has two unique properties.
It has to be unique and it can be reduced anymore.
So in our case again if you think about super keys the first one that comes to mind is to use all precautions.
Now can we divide this one into two more so brickies.
Yes we get the first one will be employ 80 and first name used at the same time.
And the second one being first name and last name.
Now can we divide this two super keys into more subroutines.
And yes we can.
Because even if we just search for employee ID we will get Brando back.
So if we say one employee equals one we'll get rhabdo if we say we're employed equals free we'll get
Brad Pitt.
Can we use last name as our Superguy.
Yes we can because if we stay that we need to find results where last name equals though we'll only
get one unique role data Bradd don't.
Can these super keys be reduced to more super keys.
The answer is No.
And this is why both of these super keys are now candidate keys.
They both have unique data.
They both cannot be reduced to more super keys.
So what can we do with this candidate keys now.
Well we can make one of them a primary key and a primary key is the candidate key that is selected to
identify tuples uniquely with vendor relation and relation has several candidate keys like we do.
Only one is chosen to be primary key.
So let's go ahead take a look at our table again and here our candidate keys employee and last name
either one of them can be a primary key.
But if you select your last name as primary key and your table keeps growing and growing and you get
falls and all of employees the chances are you will have more people sharing last name.
So then last name will not be unique and it cannot qualify to be a candidate key and therefore a primary
key anymore.
This is why in a lot of tables you will see an ID column basically id attribute is added to almost every
table when it comes to ask you all because it allows you to put a unique constraint on it and make it
a primary key.
And all you have to specify is that any time you add a new row data the ID value goes up by one.
And this way you will never run out of space to store new data and you will always be able to identify
your data.
This is why we have student IDs consumer Adie's customer IDs order IDs.
Again almost every table has this attribute now.
So I would suggest you pick employee as your primary key because it will never stop being unique and
it's the best primary key there is.
Now another thing we can do of candidate keys is tie them up to four inches so foreign key is an attribute
or set of attributes and one relation that matches the candidate key of some other relations.
So if we go ahead take a look and these two tables and pay attention to the left one for a second we
can immediately identify the primary key for this table.
The best one will be game rank because it's basically game id.
Two games can shared the same game rank.
And it's an integer value that's always increased by 1.
It's very easy to search for.
It's very easy to work with.
If we take a look at the right table for NL we can identify three candidate keys.
Platform name first retail availability and units sold.
This continued on platform comment cannot be candidate keys because they have no values and therefore
they're not unique.
So we have three different candidate keys here.
Now if we take a look at both tables we can see that they share one column and that column is platform.
So what can we do right now what we can do and what we should do.
We should specify that the platform call them in the left table has to be our foreign key that references
the console dates table on the right.
This way we can join them together.
We can select data from both of them and they just makes our life much much easier.
Relational keys are used when you have a lot of different tables in the same database and a lot of your
data is connected to each other.
So it's very useful to know them and to be able to implement them in your database design.
I hope you enjoy this lecture and I'll see you in LA.